.TH RN 1 2009-05-04 "version 1.0.0" "USER COMMANDS"

.SH NAME
rn \- scriptable and extensible mass file renamer

.SH SYNOPSYS
.B rn
.RB [\| \-g \|]
.RB [\| \-m \|]
.RB [\| \-R \|]
.RB [\| \-s
.IR file \|]
.RB [\| \-S
.IR sort \|]
.RB [\| \-t \|]
.RB [\| \-q \|]
.RB [\| \-v \|]
.RI [\| argument \|]
\&\.\.\.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rn
is a command line interface to Renamer, a utility designed to rename files
according to a set of user-provided instructions, generally residing in a
script file.

.SH OPTIONS
If no arguments are provided,
.B rn
is invoked in interactive mode.
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-glob
Expand arguments according to UNIX-style globs.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-move
Enable \(lqmove mode\(rq, this allows scripts to perform file move operations.
.TP
.B \-R, \-\-reverse
Reverse the sorting order of the arguments.
.TP
.BI \-s\  file ,\ \-\-script= file
Execute
.I file\c
, as a script, for each argument. Each argument is invoked in its own script
environment, meaning that the stack is not retained between executions and
any stored variables are not persisted.
.TP
.BI \-S\  sort ,\ \-\-sort= sort
Sort arguments according to criteria:
.BR name , \ size , \ time .
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-dry-run
Perform a dry-run, meaning that no permanent operations are performed, such
as file renaming.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Reduce verbosity level.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Increase verbosity level.

.SH SCRIPTING
Renamer operates in a stack based environment. Command line arguments,
function return values and function parameters are all pushed and popped
from the stack.
.PP
Function arguments are an exception: any arguments passed inline to a function
are subtracted from the total number of arguments required and appended to
the arguments popped from the stack. For example:
.PP
.nf
rn> push "foo bar baz"
rn> split " "
rn> stack
--> ['foo', 'bar', 'baz']
.fi
.PP
Renamer's interactive mode should prove valuable in exploring the behaviour
of Renamer's commands, particularly the
.I help
and
.I commands
functions.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.renamer/scripts/
Directory containing user-provided scripts
.TP
.I ~/.renamer/plugin_name/config
Config file for configuring
.B plugin_name
individually
